Welcome back to our fourth and last item on the list emails.
Now if you're applying directly via a company's website or through a job board please stop.
All right.
Don't actually stop but realize it's not the best way.
It's what everybody else does.
There's a study that was published by a company called mbak group and they looked at some of the job
applications and did some statistics around those numbers and they found that close to 30 percent of
hires made by organizations actually came from referrals.
So that is employees referring their friends or somebody that they know to the company.
It was the number one way of companies to hire other people.
And again part of this study also discovered that 46 percent of men and 39 percent of women actually
find their jobs most of their jobs through networking.
The interesting thing is that the higher your salary the more effective networking becomes and getting
a referral.
For most companies the best way to get an interview is not only through online job boards but the best
way to get an interview is through referrals.
But lucky for you this doesn't have to be an actual friend or a coworker.
Usually you can message people within a company using some of the tools that I'm going to show you.
All right let's get started and show you the first example.
All right.
The first way.
Well the most obvious way is to actually apply to companies where your friends and colleagues can refer
you but maybe that's not the case for everybody and that's kind of rare as I've shown you in the linked
in video.
There are ways for you to actually connect with employees through Linked In and message them based on
who you're connected with and you can easily send them a polite or smart e-mail.
And this is an example template that I'll share with you that i actually a user.
Patrick McKenzie on Hacker News shared and it's a it's a really really good piece of text.
I'm not going to read it out for you but you can see over here a short e-mail to get yourself a referral
or at least talk to some of the developers of the company or some of the key players that might get
you an interview.
But again how can we solve this problem of finding the people to contact.
The one way to do this is using Linked-In.
Like I showed you I can see what jobs say Netflix is hiring for.
I can see some of their employees here can see that I have some connections here from my school.
So that's an easy way but what if you're not able to use LinkedIn are able to find these connections.
There are some great tools that you can use to find in this day and age pretty much anybody's email
and I'll link to this after this lesson.
But you have a lot of plug ins such as this one over here that finds e-mails of lignin profiles.
You have Hunter over here that you go on a Web site and it shows you what e-mails are associated with
the Web site and other tools like email extractor using that you can target somebody that might be a
gatekeeper that is somebody that can make the decision to interview you or not interview you or can
refer you to somebody that has that decision.
Because nothing beats getting a referral from someone.
And the other beauty is that most big companies have incentives for employees who refer someone so they
may actually be willing to help you.
What do I mean by that.
For example my past company if you're able to refer a developer you got an extra bonus on that month's
salary because they're always looking for good employees.
And they know that referrals usually turn out to be better candidates than somebody that just applies
randomly online by contacting some of the people that might be able to refer you.
They actually may be interested as well because they might get a bonus from the company for referring
somebody that they are going to hire and thus improve the company.
Keep in mind that you don't have to just do this online.
You can meet people at meet ups.
You might have locally or even hackathon where you can meet people in real life and ask them if the
company they work for is hiring.
There just so many ways to do it and be smart about it.
Again nothing beats getting a referral from someone they just blindly sending out a resume.
But let's go back to the slides.
The methods we just discussed for e-mailing them getting referrals are pretty basic.
So let's get creative instead of sending your resume.
I usually e-mail a company I'm interested in and again you can use some of the free tools that I showed
you such as email Hunter and instead of sending a resume instead send them a personal web site that
you have a portfolio why you want to work for that company and ask them if you can come by for an interview.
Just ask them outright.
You can send this message to the head H.R. or human resources person or somebody on the development
team.
Another way or even more creative way what message lead developers or CTO is somebody in charge of the
developers or engineers of the company that you're interested in working for them and let them know
that you're interested in getting where they are professionally and ask them to take them for coffee
or lunch or ask them if you can come by to the office to chat with them about their careers so you can
learn from them.
People love talking about themselves.
And if you're not outright asking for a job instead you just want to pick their brain.
Or learn from them.
You might be surprised how often you'd get the yes come by and let's have coffee.
The key here is to just not ask him for a job.
And at the end of meeting them perhaps inquire if they have anybody that they recommend you speak to.
If they're not looking to hire they'll direct you to someone else.
And then finally another way they're like reaching out is to perhaps message CEOs directly or president
of a company.
And this is something that works with smaller companies big large companies.
This most likely won't work.
But if you message a CEO of a startup and ask perhaps what technical problems they are having tell them
what technologies you're an expert in and ask to solve a real life problem that they have free of charge.
They can keep their work and in return all you ask for is an interview.
I mean they might take you up on it because hey why not.
I remember one time when I was a little younger I message the CEO of a really big travel company saying
that the book that they wrote really inspired me and that I'm starting my own travel company and the
CEO and I actually had a meeting and we spoke for about two hours discussing whether I should join his
company or not.
And I never asked him for a job.
It was just something that I sent out again doing things that most people wouldn't do.
But at the end of the day the point of this is to not necessarily send out mass months of resume select
the jobs that you want personalize your e-mails and try to avoid sending a resume if you can try to
bypass formalities of the application process by trying to get her interview right away most likely
during the interview.
They will ask you for a resume but by that point it doesn't really matter.
You've already gotten what you wanted.
They interview by the way you may have noticed that this is why cover letters should be an e-mail to
introduce yourself.
Cover letter should actually be just directed at someone and personalize.
So don't bother creating a generic one.
They're just simply e-mails to reach out to somebody to get referrals to get that interview just write
an e-mail or any way to get connected.
To show how you can help solve their problems.
I'll see in the next video.